Install TEB-Package					{#install}
===================

Ubuntu
------

**Prerequisites:**
- *CMake:*                                  Required to create the platform depenent build files (`sudo apt-get install cmake`).
- *Gnuplot* (optional, but recommanded):    Required for plotting and visualization (`sudo apt-get install gnuplot gnuplot-x11`).
- *Doxygen* (optional):                     Necessary, if the documentation should be compiled (`sudo apt-get install doxygen`).
- *Tex Live* (optional):                    Only necessary to create a pdf documentation from the latex source generated by doxygen.
- *Matlab* (optional):                      Necessary only if the user wants to create mex-files and s-functions for the usage in Matlab and Simulink.
- *kDevelop* (optional):                    IDE for developers. It supports the import CMakeLists.txt directly (`sudo apt-get install kdevelop`).
- *SuiteSparse* (optional):		    Enables the usage of a wider range of sparse direct linear solvers (`sudo apt-get install libsuitesparse-dev`).

**Usage:**

TODO

**Doxygen:**

After the project is generated using CMake, cd into the ./build folder and call `make doc` from the terminal.
Now a HTML and a LATEX folder should be created inside the doc folder.
To create a PDF from the LATEX source directly, cd to ./doc/LATEX and type in your terminal: `make pdf` (Tex Live including pdflatex required!).


Mac OSX
-------

**Prerequisites:**
- *XCode:*                                  Download the newest x-code version from the app store or from the OS X developer page.
- *CMake:*                                  Required to create the platform depenent build files (http://www.cmake.org).
- *Gnuplot* (optional, but recommanded):    Required for plotting and visualization (http://gnuplot.info)
- *Doxygen* (optional):                     Necessary, if the documentation should be compiled
                                            (http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/download.html).
- *MacTex* (optional):                      Only necessary to create a pdf documentation from the latex source generated by doxygen.
- *Matlab* (optional):                      Necessary only if the user wants to create mex-files and s-functions
                                            for the usage in Matlab and Simulink.

*Remarks*:                                        
For me (Christoph), x11 (xquartz) was not working if gnuplot was called from default terminal.
It worked only in xterm. Since xcode starts the default terminal, I decided to use aquaterm in the TEBPlotter class:

    install xcode with command line tools
    install homebrew
    install aquaterm
    terminal: brew install gnuplot --with-aquaterm
    test installation:
    terminal: gnuplot
    plot x

                                            
**Usage:**

Open CMake and select the CMakeLists.txt inside the project folder.
Select x-code as the underlying compiler, configure and generate the project into a "build" folder.
You can find the x-code project files now inside the newly created build folder.

**Doxygen:**

After the project is generated using CMake, cd into the ./doc folder and call `doxygen doxygen.config` from the terminal.
Now a HTML and a LATEX folder should be created inside the doc folder.
To create a PDF from the LATEX source directly, cd to ./doc/LATEX and type in your terminal: `make pdf` (MacTex including pdflatex required!).


Windows
-------

**Prerequisites:**
- *Visual Studio 2013+:*                    Download Visual Studio (At least Version 12 / 2013)
- *CMake:*                                  Required to create the platform depenent build files (http://www.cmake.org).
- *Gnuplot* (optional, but recommanded):    Required for plotting and visualization (http://gnuplot.info)
- *Doxygen* (optional):                     Necessary, if the documentation should be compiled
                                            (http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/download.html).
- *MikTex* (optional):                      Only necessary to create a pdf documentation from the latex source generated by doxygen.
- *Matlab* (optional):                      Necessary only if the user wants to create mex-files and s-functions
                                            for the usage in Matlab and Simulink.

**Remarks:**
Gnuplot has to be included in Windows Path variable:
- 	Windows 8: System Control -> Extended System Settings -> Advanced -> Environment variables.
	Modify the "System Variable" PATH and append the Gnuplot binary directory.
	E.g.: PATH;C:\\Program Files\\gnuplot\\bin\\
											
**Usage:**

Open CMake and select the C++ project folder.
Select Visual Studio 12 (2013) 64 Bit as the underlying compiler, configure and generate the project into a specified "build" folder.
**Caution:** We observed problems using 32 Bit, therefore we recommend to select 64 Bit Visual Studio!!
You can find the Visual-Studio project files now inside the newly created build folder.
